Hello everyone and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to go through making a sprite's heat like the one you see in front of you.
Now this is obviously an animation type spreadsheet.
However the same principles can be used for static game objects and you elements as well later on.
So let's go over into him now and get going.
Hello everyone and welcome.
Over into guimpe the first thing we need to do is just get a little bit of a head start on ourselves
and go and get a.
An animation that we've already done that we can start combining.
I'm going to go off and find one myself.
I'm going to use that bouncing ball that you saw a few moments ago.
Here we go.
I found that there I found the one before the merge.
I could do that one or the merged one.
Now give me less work to do if I have merged.
But keep the elements separate.
Otherwise I only use the emerged one in this case just to keep things nice and straightforward.
So the first thing to work out is what size the sprite's are going to be.
Now I'm going to use this whole thing as it's individual sprites.
That's absolutely fine.
This image here and I can see up at the top It's 128 by 128 in the description.
Now if you can't see that you can go to image and canvas size and that will give you the size of the
image as well.
So there we go up 128 by 128 and we have 20.
I think if I got background the background copy in and it counts up to 18.
So we've got 20 there.
Well let's go ahead and do a bit of maths here so we've got 20 lots of 100 and twenty eight.
So in that case we could have a 128 look I've got to write 20 there so we can have a 128 by whatever
it happens to be along the top here which would be 20 times 128.
Think it's 2500 or something.
Yes two thousand five hundred and sixty.
Now bearing that in mind what we're going to have to do here is have that large us that's going to be
4000 and 96.
Now if you had an image is not going to look like that it's going to be very long and not very high
and that's going to be difficult to read as a human especially when it's in thumbnail form.
So that gives us a couple of options and using the trick before where we just increase one and decrease
the other.
We can get to a sensible size so if we went to two five six here this would be 2048 and five 12 would
be 1 0 2 4.
Now there's an option here that's going to be this aspect ratio roughly and that's fine.
That's the same shape as my screen so that's a good orientation to work with it.
We can't go anything in between if we flip those around it's just going to be more like an A4 sheet
of paper import trait rather than landscape.
So we know the size now of the new image that we're going to make.
That's going to become our Sprite she says.
Close that down and go over into guimpe.
Now that we've done that we can go to new and it's gonna be a thousand and twenty four by five hundred
and twelve.
So we've got our new image ready to go.
Now if you've not got all of your images in a layered group now would be the time to do that.
Now do remember to drag them in an appropriate order because obviously at this point in time we don't
want to reorder them and move them across and have to move them around later on.
So here you can see inputting background copy in my background but I need to make sure it's in the right
place and then just bring them up from there.
Now this is going to take me a few moments to do.
It's important and I'll see you guys back in a few seconds.
So there we go we've got everything sorted now.
Grabbing the lower group itself we can go over to our new image and drop it in.
Now we can see that if we expand that layer group we've got everything across and really to a range
how we want.
Now it's going to be a bit of a pain in the backside to try and arrange this.
You can go to the move tool and making sure in this case move the active layer is turned on find no
one drag it try and a line at the very top you dont know whether thats aligned properly so you zoom
in and try and work it out.
Is it aligned properly I have no clue.
No its not so you go in and tweak it.
And that can be a real pain to try and do is much easier actually when you have smaller sprites because
you dont have so many degrees of freedom here of your pixel out.
It takes quite an effort to try and get it back in place.
However what we can do is use the great system that's built in to guimpe And then just have it so we
can just drag and snap it to that grid in order to see the grid.
We need to first turn it on so we go to view and show the grid we can see there is a grid across our
image here.
Wow okay that is going to be too small can we adjust that grid.
Yes we can under the image you can configure that grid so grids in two separate plays weve got show
grid here under the view menu.
And then weve got image and configure a grid and theres one more option for the grid we'll get to in
a few moments.
So if we go to configure grid Elwyn now we can set the spacing to 128 by 128.
And click okay.
Now we have ourselves the right size squares and our objects.
They don't quite snap into them yet.
So if you turn unsnapping says go to view and snap to grid.
Once that's done it is merely a matter of arranging it interview appropriate location grabbing the next
one and placing it down there and just carrying on.
And before you know it you filled up your grid.
Now if my calculations are correct with 20 we will end up filling in all of these and up to here I think.
So these ones here will all end up be well they'll all end up being wasted space.
Now it's worthwhile noting that we can place them.
If you need to rearrange them because it is quite easy at this point to accidently click the wrong thing
and drag it to a different place.
If we're not careful.
So now we've got that out of the way.
You are armed with the knowledge you need to create a sprite sheet.
It's time for a challenge.
I would like you to go ahead and make your first spy cheat so finish off the work that we're currently
doing and then finally of course when you're done please do share it with us so we can see how you're
getting on Paul's video now and give that a go.
OK everyone welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and do the challenge of finish off our Sprite sheet.
Okay so now we're back over and Jim before I do anything else I'm going to go ahead and save them a
save as and then find the appropriate location for me.
Now this is going to be is this is the bouncy ball.
So I'm going to call this the appropriate lecture name which in this case is 17 a first year MP and
then I'm going to call it bouncy ball.
Sprite sheet.
It's explicit what it actually is or spight sheets must were in them.
But my letters in there we go.
So now what I can do is I can actually do pick a layer or guide because I know the order of these things
they're going to be on top of one another and there's no transparency.
The topmost one here is the last one side and go and place that with the calculation.
I did a moment ago into the last cell phone to call these cells the last grid space and then it is just
a matter of dragging and dropping and because we don't actually cover up where these appeared in our
image is going to be really quick to do this.
Now if you were filling up your Sprite sheet you may have to exercise a bit more caution when doing
this because at some point you'd end up covering it up and it's just fortunate that this square here
actually has this look just this corner of the previous images that I can draw.
Literally click on and drag.
And if you want to make things clearer of course you can turn off the background itself so you can see
that corner.
I'm dragging here to the appropriate location.
And it's so much quicker once you've got this grid here to just snap them all into place.
And that was very very quick to do that I think there was about a minute or two and probably quicker
if I wasn't talking through the process as well.
So I'll go ahead and save that file because the final thing that I can do here is go ahead and go file
export as and I'm going to export it as a P N G.
Now shortly we'll have a discussion on file types because there are lots out there and it does matter
what you use.
You can use lots of different ones but it is important that we get the right one.
But for the moment that's all we need do.
I'm going to export my sprite sheet so now it's a PRNG it's in a format that you can share places.
I hope to see yours over on the forum and I will see you all in the next lecture.